---
layout: post
title:  "Failure, Animalism, and ML math refresher"
date:   2024-10-14 00:50:05 +0200
categories: jekyll update
---

* `5 elements of effective thinking`:
    * How to improve insight?
        * Write down everything you know about a subject. This agrees with `Make It Stick` in that you are forcing retrieval.
        * Try doing the opposite. Hold the opposite opinion for an 1hr at a time, 15 minutes at a time.

* `Animal Farm`:
    * Animalism: avoid the instincts of men to enslave and exploit for labor

* Machine learning Intro and KNNs
    * Learning strategies
        * Supervised: labeled dataset for training, followed by unlabeled dataset for testing
        * Unsupervised: no labeled data; model should "learn" shape of data via dimensionality reduction or clustering
        * Semi-supervised: not sure what this; maybe it's autoencoders. It's applicable to generative models like ChatGPT.
    * Learning problems
        * Classification: output to fixed number of classes
            * Image classification: dog/zebra/cat etc.
        * Regression: output to continuous range
            * Predict house prices given set of parameters
    * What is a decision point in KNNs?
        * This is at the edge of nearest neighbors where data is unclassifiable
    * What types of problems are KNNs applicable to?
        * Regression or classification.

* Machine learning `Math refresher`
    * How can you determine the dimensionality of each variable in an expression?
        * Can you provide an example?
    * What must be true about each variable in `Ax=b` to ensure a unique solution `x`?
        * `A` must be square and full-rank. 
        * Can you provide a counter example that shows why both must be true?
    * What is rank?
        * rank refers to the number of independent rows and columns in a matrix. Independence requires that rows/columns are not linear combination of other rows/columns.
    * What is full-rank?
        * This contrasts to row rank/column rank where only rows/columns must be independent.
    * What is required for pseudo-inverse? What are applications?
        * Pseudo-inverse only requires row-rank.

* Geo processing exam review
    * What is loop subdivision and can you give an example of it in practice?
    * What are the rules for drawing Bezier curves?
    * What are edge collapse and vertex splitting?
    * How does marching cubes algorithm work? Marching squares?